Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Aug 29, 2012
300,000 Views and counting!  Thanks so much for continued comments and criticisms. I'm glad to see so many people passionate about current events (and still passionate about Billy Joel, my musical hero).
Still hoping for commentary from Mr. Joel!  :)
Man, school is intense!!!
*** Update ***
Guys, brush up on history.  Although some of you feel like this covers "America only", I encourage you to read through the lyrics and you'll see quite the even spread of details.
Thank you so much for continuing to watch this video.  Perhaps some day Billy Joel (saw him in concert a few years ago) will comment or share this video (although knowing him, I doubt it).
History will be adding some more dates to this in the future.  I'm just waiting for the years to add up to make doing it worthwhile.
"We Didn't Start the Fire" documents 40 years of events within 4 minutes.  In one of his rare music video appearances, Billy Joel sings about events starting from the year of his birth (1949) to 1989.  "We" denotes the Baby Boomers, thought to be the problem generation. What if the song continued?  What if he sang about events since then? What about the new generations? I think none of us started the fire... all we can do is come together to try and extinguish it.
Please excuse my rough singing and lack of engineering skills.
I have seen so many videos out there of this song and a few people requesting an "up to date" version documenting recent events.  None of the videos I have seen did what I am attempting to do, which is pay homage to Mr. Joel himself by examining what might happen if he made a second version.  This is intended as a creative re-imagining of what is already a great, classic song.
Uh, I own nothing in this song but the verse lyrics and I don't own the footage either.  Everything else belongs to Billy Joel and Columbia records.  The track is a Karaoke track from ProSound.  The images and videos seen come from various sources.  If you see something of yours that I have used and would like to be credited please message me first - do NOT request to have the video taken down.  Give me the opportunity to give credit where credit is due.
Lastly, this is a fan-made video purely made for entertainment; the track is not for sale, profit and I don't care to make it as such - so please support Mr. Joel's music and buy his albums - he is a terrific musician and is who inspired me to write and learn to play piano when I was a kid.
Upon request, here are the lyrics:
Noriega, Berlin Wall, "New Kids", Gulf War;
Russian schism - communism, Germans reunite.
Nelson in South Africa, Channel Tunnel, Kasparov,
Ice Caps, Poll Tax, Hubble in the sky.
Rodney King, CDs, Bombing over Lockerbie,
Grunge Hits - Nevermind, Pee-Wee Herman out of line.
"Don't Ask, Don't Tell", Oklahoma City hell,
Farrakhan, "Million-Strong", Marching on the front lawn.
"Four More, Clinton-Gore", Lewinsky then Tupac Shakur,
Cloned Sheep, Impeached, OJ goes free,
Harry Potter, Princess Di, Matthew Shepard hate crime;
Y2K, Columbine, "Party Like it's '99".
Hanging chads, Marc Rich, 9/11 Terrorists
Enron undone, Sniper scare in Washington.
Furby, Ozzy, Eminem,
Weapons in Iraq again; Columbia, "Governator", Martha Stewart jail time.
Goldman-Sachs, "Brokeback", "Passion", Google, Arafat.
Hurricanes, Levees break, Children getting overweight.
Hussein gets hanged, Terri Schiavo "End the Pain",
David Hicks, Dixie Chicks, Rockets in the Gaza Strip. (uh oh uh oh)
Businesses 'too big to fail', Phelps, Bolt, "Save the Whales",
Bailouts, California Proposition 8.
Barack Obama "Yes We Can", H1N1 back again;
King of Pop - world frowns; Housing bubble breakdown.
Unemployment on the rise, Civil Unions legalized,
Aid flotillas taken in, "Citizens United" win;
Osama and Obamacare, Fighting in Tahrir Square,
Haiti Quake, Gulf spill, Tea Party Standstills.
Camping, Manning, WikiLeaks,
Occupy Wall Street!  Linda K, Pepper Spray, What else do I have to say?
Medicare, Ceiling hit, Royal Wedding, defecits,
Kim Jong, Jobs gone, rise of the smartphone.
Ancient Mayan prophecy, irradiation in the sea,
speculation, gas price, outsourced, workers rights.
SOPA, PIPA censorship, Schettino, Greek debt,
"Stand Your Ground", Trayvon, Ron Paul, Mitt Rom.
Banning speech in public halls and corporate money funding laws,
Apple and the patent wars, I can't take it anymore!
Category
