Waxing Lyrical as Spring Draws Near
Published on February 14, 2019
February 14, 2019 • 0 Likes • 0 Comments
Associate Broker - RE/MAX Synergy, Orland Park, IL
Like
Twitter
0
Super Sunday is now behind us, and that means the advent of "Realtor Spring" is upon us. Before the first bloom on the rose, sightings of Robins, and Punxsutawny Phil, Realtors here in the Midwest can already smell nitrogen in the air from Spring thunderstorms, and we begin to see in our mind's eye For Sale signs with our names on them springing up in yards like dandelions and clover.
Here at RE/MAX Synergy in Orland Park, IL, I have begun my marketing campaign, seeking sellers to list their homes for sale with me, buyers to enlist my services to find a home, and renters who are perhaps planning to shove off on their own for the first time. All are typically seeking a new place called Home. While this may not be true of Estate Sales, a special sensitivity is required when helping folks dealing with loss. Often they are charged with selling the home in which they grew up in, saw brothers or sisters born, maybe saw mom or dad pass on. And the satisfaction of helping folks through all of these circumstances never grows old.
At the core of all this, is the realization by empathetic Realtors that our clients are first and foremost, people with lives that are kind of on hold until their living situations are determined. For buyers, the fact of the biggest investment of their lives is not lost on us. And for sellers, the reality that there can be no move forward until their homes are at least under contract, is always the only pressure we need to attract buyers to their properties. As a Realtor, my job is not only to safeguard client's confidentiality, but to also protect them from the pitfalls of investing in something that our experience may tell us might not be quite right for the client. Is it a money pit? Are taxes so high that the sale price is misleading?
Conversely, if we have endeavored to truly know and understand our client, we often barely cross the threshold of a property, smile and say, "This is it." It's the absolute best feeling when we both say it at the same time.
My name is Frank Williams. And I am more than a casual Realtor. I commit to be at your service 24/7 from Day 1 to Closing, and sometimes beyond. I'd love the opportunity to interview with you to be the Realtor you hire to help you navigate through the sometimes rough waters of Real Estate transactions.
(708) 802-1133 / frankwilliamsremax@gmail.com
