Simply Clean Deep Cleansing Scrubber
Regular price
 
**LAST DAY FOR FLASH SALE! USE CODE 'CLEANSKIN10' FOR 10% OFF!**
The Ultrasonic Skin Scrubber is exactly what 5,145 smart customers are using to "pearlize” their skin, so you would never dream that they too suffered from:
Clogged Pores
Polluted skin
THE #1 WAY TO KEEP YOUR FACE LOOKING CLEAN AND FRESH!
ULTRASONIC DEEP CLEANSING - High frequency ultrasonic oscillation technology is transmitted to the skin’s surface delivering instantaneous pressure and vibration. It’s able to penetrate skin 3-5mm, effectively removes blackheads, dead skin and dirt, allowing your skin to regain its clearness and cleanliness.
FIRMING AND LIFTING SKIN - Micro-current pulse technology can activate cell vitality, boost collagen regeneration, and help restore skin elasticity so that skin remains moisturized and firm. The device gently massages face and mobilizes subcutaneous muscles to help shape the facial contour.
HELPS SKIN TO ABSORB NUTRIENT - High frequency vibration breaks down and refines larger molecules such as VC and collagen to help you massage your skin and easily absorb nutrients.
DID YOU KNOW THE QUALITY OF YOUR SKIN HAS A MORE DIRECT EFFECT ON YOUR PERSONAL (AND BUSINESS) RELATIONSHIPS THAN ANY OTHER PART OF YOUR APPEARANCE?
Nasty substances are invading your face non-stop. Having a face covered in dirt, acne, blackheads, oil, and dead skin cells not only destroys your overall health, but it also alienates you, erodes your self-esteem, and causes additional stress in your life.
EASY COME, EASY GLOW.
Made with stainless steel blade, Ultrasonic Skin Scrubber sends 30,000 Hz per second of ultrasonic waves that effectively loosen clogged pores and exfoliate the skin to remove dead skin cells, painlessly.
Facial skin scrubber takes advanced personal spa microderm system, effectively works electric spots suction for blackhead and acne removal. Micro-dermabrasion device exfoliates and re-surfaces the skin to promote skin health & facial renewal.
 
HERE'S WHAT OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SAYING...
By Jay Mar Flor on January 1, 2018
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ It works for me very well
"It works for me very well. I am male, 29 yrs old. I have an open pores skin. I have too much blackheads and whiteheads leading to big acne (inflammed one). I always go to skin clinic to undergo for facial cleaning which is bloody and painful. I am thankful that I have found this and just received my order on Dec. 16, 2018. I immediately tried this one and I personally recommended this cause it worked very well. I got too much dirt in my skin. Additional tip: I used Natures Republic Aloevera Sooting Gel during and after for moisturizing purposes."
 
By Carly S. on December 22, 2018
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Five Stars
“Amazing results! My skin is very clean and soft after use”
By Beth Anne Howard on December 18, 2018
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Awesome product!!
"I use this during a facial routine for my skin care and it has given me great healthy looking skin. I use this after using a facial steamer. This product cleanses my pores very well and makes it look clear and beautiful. I have bought another one to gift my sister as well."
 
By Kendall on November 29, 2018
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Definitely works!!
"I'm glad I decided to purchase this skin scrubber because it works better than I anticipated. It's great for cleaning & pampering your skin at home without having to spend a fortune going to a salon. I like that I can change from the vibration mode to PAD mode, depending on what I'm using it for. It does a good job removing blackheads & helping to tighten my skin."
 
~To send your own feedback, please email us at info@simplyclean.co~
Note:
Do not use this device around eyes, injured skin, dermatitis caused by cosmetics, acne inflamed parts, or reshaping parts.
This device will have a low noise due to ultrasonic vibration, that is normal phenomenon, please feel free to use.
Do remember this device must be used with skin cream or liquid. Do not use it under dry conditions.
Children, pregnant women, and severe heart disease patients can not use this device.
Please keep your hands dry when using this device, otherwise, the power supply may be short-circuited.
After use, please wipe the probe with dry cloth and disinfect it by alcohol.
Always consult an expert before use or starting a new treatment. 
SHIPPING INFO
 
Our goal is to deliver to hundreds of customers across the world, ensuring that we provide the very highest levels of responsiveness to you at all times.
Due to the recent wave of social media attention, please allow 12-24 days for shipping. After your order has been shipped, you will be provided with a tracking code to track your order.
 
