Save
After three years, Lanett basketball’s championship streak has come to an end.
The Panthers came up short in Thursday’s region semifinals, falling to Georgiana 55-50. Lanett made a late rally to cut into a 10-point deficit with 2:36 to go, but ultimately poor shooting and fouls derailed any hope of a miraculous comeback.
“I thought we gave a great effort at the end,” Lanett coach Richard Carter said. “One thing I think I probably did too long was I stayed in the zone (defense) too long. We should have came back out and played man sooner than we did and put more pressure up court. We didn't do it, so hey, that's one of those you've got to take on the chin.”
Lanett hung tight with Georgiana through the first three quarters, but with two-and-a-half minutes to go, it appeared the Panthers’ ship was sunk. Despite the odds being stacked against them, the Panthers kept pushing to catch back up.
Jayshon Burton got things going with 2:22 remaining, hitting a lay-up that made the score 48-40. After a turnover by Georgiana, Jaquarius Houston did some real damage from behind the arc, drilling a 3-pointer to create a five-point game with 1:52 on the clock. Houston stole the ball on the next Georgiana possession and got it to Kristian Story, who hit a 3 that made it a 48-46 score.
Story’s shot seemed to signal that Lanett hadn’t lost its winning ways just yet. The two-point deficit after the shot, however, was as close as the Panthers ever got to the lead.
Georgiana’s Azenda Pennington drew a foul six seconds after Story’s 3-pointer, and he hit the first of his free throws. Pennington missed the second free throw but saw the ball rebounded then dunked by Martavius Payton to put Lanett in a 51-46 hole.
Needing answers quickly, Tifton Dobbs delivered one with a jumper that drew Lanett within three points with 46 seconds left. After the shot, Georgiana’s Christopher Mixon drew a foul then hit one free throw to make the score 52-48.
Another foul with 16 seconds to go sent Dalvin Dix to the line with a chance to finish off the Panthers. Dix came through on both free throws, leaving Lanett trailing 54-48.
Burton found room in the paint for a lay-up, but it meant little as Georgiana hit one more free throw then watched the clock run out.
Burton led Lanett with 12 points, while Dobbs and Story came close behind with eight. Georgiana had three players in double-digit scoring – Mixon (15), Payton (14) and Dix (14).
Carter attributed Lanett’s ramped-up defense for getting the Panthers within striking distance late.
“We put the pressure on them,” Carter said. “We hit a couple of shots from outside and had an opportunity then had a call down here that I think went against us. But hey, that's neither here nor there. That's the official's call. He made it, and we've got to live with it.”
Carter reflected on Lanett’s recent basketball success, saying he was living his dream and that he was blessed to lead Lanett to such heights. Carter said he felt for the seniors who weren’t able to go out as champions and also had a message for the underclassmen who will be coming back.
“The one thing I can say is they've worked hard all season long,” Carter said. “If they carry that into the future, it'll mean a lot. It'll bring forth fruit at the right time.”
Speaking on the future, Carter was non-committal about returning to Lanett for the 2019-2020 season. He predicted he would make a decision regarding retirement in mid-April.
Lanett vs. Georgiana boys basketball, Class 1A regional semifinal
Lanett's Tifton Dobbs (2) and his teammates walk off the court. Lanett boys basketball vs. Georgiana on Thursday, Feb. 14, at Garrett Coliseum in Montgomery in a Class 1A regional semifinal.
Jordan D. Hill/jhill@oanow.com
