YYYY
(OPTIONAL) Upload an image to include with Tweet #5.
(The best size for Twitter is 1024x1024 or any square image at least 512px wide.) (Note: If you uploaded an image in other tweets above, and you want to use the same image, you do need to upload it for each tweet you want it to appear.)
Accepted file types: jpg, gif, png, jpeg.
Tweet Suggestion #5 (not required) - (The link to your book MUST be here)
THE LINK TO THE BOOK (or author website, or other related links) MUST appear in the Tweet Suggestion box below! Failure to include it here, could result in the promotion going to Twitter without the link for people to buy the book.
Additional Details
Your Name*
Best Contact Email*
Enter the best e-mail to get in touch with you with. You may pay with a different PayPal email, that is fine.
Author Name*
Twitter Name (please include @)
We don't tweet directly to you (we tweet to our network of followers). This is so we can eventually promote your Twitter account to our followers on an on-going basis. (coming later in 2015)
Book Title*
Book Link*
Any additional notes??
DO NOT PUT BOOK LINKS OR IMAGE LINKS HERE... they belong in the Tweet Text fields above. If they are not included in the Tweet Text fields above, it could cause delays in processing your order.
Facebook Author!
Be sure to use the following coupon code below to get 25% off:
FACEBOOK25
Don't forget to hit "Apply!"
Coupon Code
Enter your coupon code here and BE SURE TO click "Apply". (Note, you won't find active coupon codes on other sites. We only issue them to our prior customer list. So, place an order and you will receive our next coupon when we release one.)
Total
$0.00
Please double check your tweets for accuracy. Make sure all links are correct. By submitting below, you confirm that you have double-checked everything. As noted below, we are not able to make changes to the submissions once they have been processed, unless the error is on our part. PLEASE DOUBLE CHECK!
Are you having problems completing payment? Please try to submit again (with a different browser if possible). Then, if you still aren’t able to, please use the Contact Us button to let us know, so we can get it solved so we can promote your books.
Fine Print
— As noted above, we reserve the right to reject books, without a reason given. If a book is not approved, we will refund you in full.
— We make no guarantees as to how many retweets, favorites, clicks, or sales your tweets or links will receive. We only guarantee that we have built a legitimate following of mostly readers and authors, and that the amount of tweets you order will be fulfilled.
— Please ensure that your tweet character counts are correct. We will attempt to make sure that they are correct, and will make necessary changes. If your character counts are not correct, we assume no responsibility for the corrections/edits made by our staff.
— We cannot make changes to the tweets after we have entered them into our system, so please ensure the links, details, etc. are correct. We can only make corrections due to errors on our end.
— We love working with authors, but we’re human. We will make mistakes. We will do what we can to rectify the mistakes, but please treat us like humans and with decency if we make a mistake on your order. Thank you.
— If you are looking for a BookTweeters coupon , we only release them via our previous customers email list. The ones you find on other sites will usually be expired by the time you find them. Place an order above, then you will be on the list to get updates and coupons.
Copyright © 2014-2018 - eBooksHabit.com
