Quantity:
2 available
Please enter a quantity of $qty_dummy$ or less Please enter a quantity of 1 Purchases are limited to $qty_dummy$ per buyer Please enter quantity of 1 or more Please enter a lower number Choose quantity that is less than $qty_dummy1$ or equal to $qty_dummy$ You can only choose quantity that is equal to $qty_dummy$
Price:
20*500 cm Self Adhesive Tile Art Wall Decal Sticker DIY Kitchen Bathroom Decors
Sign in to check out
Check out as guest
FREE Economy Shipping | See details
 
United States  |  See exclusions
Import charges:
(amount confirmed at checkout) To be provided at checkout  help icon for Shipping - opens a layer
This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. If you reside in an EU member state besides UK, import VAT on this purchase is not recoverable. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab
No additional import charges on delivery
Delivery:
Estimated on or before Fri. Mar. 08 to  help icon for Estimated delivery date - opens a layer
Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods.
Payments:
International shipping and import charges paid to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab Any international shipping and import charges are paid in part to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab International shipping paid to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab Any international shipping is paid in part to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab
Returns:
30 day returns. Buyer pays for return shipping |  See details
Frequently Bought Together
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Last updated on  Feb 12, 2019 01:08:31 PST  View all revisions
Item specifics
Condition:
New with tags: A brand-new, unused, and unworn item (including handmade items) in the original packaging (such as the original box or bag) and/or with the original tags attached. See all condition definitions- opens in a new window or tab ... Read moreabout the condition
Room:
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Shipping and handling
This item will ship to United States, but the seller has not specified shipping options. Contact the seller- opens in a new window or tab and request a shipping method to your location.
Shipping cost cannot be calculated. Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Item location: NE, United States
Shipping to: United States
Excludes: US Protectorates, Alaska/Hawaii, APO/FPO, Africa, Central America and Caribbean, Greenland, Mexico, Canada, Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Bermuda, Southeast Asia, South America, Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, American Samoa, Cook Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, Wallis and Futuna, Western Samoa, Russian Federation, Albania, Andorra, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Gibraltar, Greece, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Jersey, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Svalbard and Jan Mayen, Switzerland, Ukraine, Vatican City State, Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan Republic, Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Georgia, India, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, South, Kyrgyzstan, Maldives, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, PO Box
No additional import charges at delivery!
This item will be shipped through the Global Shipping Program and includes international tracking. Learn more- opens in a new window or tab
Quantity:
There are 2 items available. Please enter a number less than or equal to 2.
Select a valid country.
Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Please enter 5 or 9 numbers for the ZIP Code.
Shipping and handling
