Help Me Reach My Goal
21 boxes left to go!
40
21
All about Do-si-dos®
These sandwich cookies give you crisp and crunchy oatmeal on the outside and a creamy peanut butter filling inside. But they're more than just tasty—they're a lesson in goal setting for the girl who sells them to you. She learns how to organize the cookie sale, set goals, and work hard—all skills she'll need in the future.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Samoas®
A tasty treat isn't all that's involved with a box of our caramel and toasted coconut-covered cookies with dark chocolaty stripes. Through interaction with each customer and other Girl Scouts, a girl learns the importance of keeping her word, doing the right thing, and being fair. A girl learns the business ethics that will serve her throughout life.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Savannah Smiles®
When you buy our zesty, lemon-flavored cookies dusted with powdered sugar, you're helping a girl learn to manage money, set goals, and work as part of a team. Thank you!
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Girl Scout S'mores™
Our new crunchy graham sandwich cookies with creamy chocolate and marshmallowy filling (YUM!) are one more delicious way to support her next adventure!
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Tagalongs®
These cookies, a layer of peanut butter coated with a rich chocolaty coating, are mouth-watering treats. But did you know that every box a girl sells helps her learn decision making? She makes a plan, solves problems on her own, and thinks creatively—skills she needs to be successful, now and in the future.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Thin Mints®
Purchasing a box of Thin Mints, our round, mint-flavored cookies with a delicious chocolaty coating, helps a girl learn money management. She handles money, keeps records, even tracks orders activities that are essential to running a successful business.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Toffee-tastic™
Rich, buttery cookies with sweet, crunchy toffee bits.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
All about Trefoils®
When you purchase a box of our traditional, delicate-tasting shortbread cookies, you're helping a girl learn money management. She handles money, keeps records, even tracks orders—activities that are essential to running a successful business.
Manufactured for Little Brownie Bakers.
DONATE COOKIES
What could be more Girl Scout than giving back to the community?
Today, join us in bringing lots of smiles to Meals on Wheels by donating delicious Girl Scouts Cookies — the cookie varieties will be automatically selected.
Thank you for helping us continue our tradition of service!
PRICE: $5.00 per box
Donated cookies do not have a shipping cost and do not count towards the 4 box minimim for shipped orders.
Shipping and Handling Fees
When you pay for shipping and handling, you're helping empower girls to do more with their cookie earnings. These fees go directly to the vendors who help us make sure your delicious cookies get to you and that the cookie money gets to her troop. That way, she and her friends can go out into their communities and do amazing things. Thank you for your support!
There's a 4 box  minimum order for shipping.
Donated cookies do not have a shipping cost and do not count towards the 4 box minimim.
For orders of 12 boxes or more, shipping is calculated as follows:
13 boxes of cookies: tier D (12 boxes) + tier A (1 more box) = 13 boxes of cookies shipping cost
25 boxes of cookies: tier D x 2 (24 boxes) + tier A (1 more box) = 25 boxes of cookies shipping cost
 
But wait! There's no need for you to do all that math. Just go to the Order Card, make your cookie selections, and we'll calculate the shipping for you!
Shipping Delivery Time
It takes 2 to 15 business days for your shipped order to arrive at U.S. and premium locations.
Need your delicious Girl Scout Cookies in a flash? Use the Shipping option to get them to your door — yum! Plus shipping your cookies allows you to support Girl Scouts around the country, not just locally. Shipping makes it easy as you don't have to be at home when it's time for delivery. Four box minimum order, please!
Shipping to a premium location such as Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or APO/FPO/DPO? We're happy to go the extra mile - we just need an additional $5 to make it happen. These cookies and the impact you're making with your purchase are sooo worth it.
In-Person Delivery
Parent Approval
In-Person delivery requires approval by a girl's parent. If your request is approved, you'll receive an email. If your order is not approved within 10 days, your order will default to the secondary option you chose during checkout, and you'll receive a notification.
Cookie Delivery Time
Cookies will be available to the troop around February 19. This is because the girl's local council has to place the order with the baker, receive the cookies, and then give them to the Girl Scout so she can deliver your awesome treats to your door. When your cookie order is ready, you'll be contacted to arrange your free delivery.
Please Adjust Your Cookie Order
Whoops!  You've selected two cookie varieties that require either Shipping or In-Person delivery.
Because both delivery options cannot be combined in one order, you'll need to remove one of the cookie varieties from your shopping cart.  This will ensure your delivery option matches for all cookies in your order.
Really want that other box of deliciousness? No problem! Just place a second order for the cookies you removed.
 
When you updated your choice of cookies, this may have changed your shipping fee.
You can see the updated fee right now or view it in your checkout summary.
SEE SHIPPING FEE
CHECKOUT
Since you chose a cookie that must be shipped, this delivery option has been selected for your order. Since you chose a cookie that must be delivered in person, this delivery option has been selected for your order.
You chose a cookie that must be shipped. Since there's a 4 box minimum for shipped orders, you'll need to add a few more boxes. Thank you.
Change Delivery Method
Change To: Ship the Cookies Deliver the Cookies In Person
Some of the cookies in your order must be shipped. If you decide to change how your order is delivered, then these cookies will automatically be removed from your cookie selection. What would you like to do? All of the cookies in your order must be shipped. If you decide to change how your order is delivered, then these cookies will automatically be removed from your cookie order. You'll need to select different cookies. What would you like to do?
Some of the cookies in your order must be delivered in person. If you decide to change how your order is delivered, then these cookies will automatically be removed from your cookie selection. There's a 4-box minimum for shipped orders. What would you like to do? All of the cookies in your order must be delivered in person. If you decide to change how your order is delivered, then these cookies will automatically be removed from your cookie order. You'll need to select different cookies. What would you like to do?
Change delivery method
Keep "Ship the cookies" Keep "Deliver the cookies"
Session Time Out
Unfortunately, you have been idle for too long and your session has timed out.
Please click on the button to restart your cookie order.
RESTART CHECKOUT
Order       Your Girl Scout Cookies!
 
