Install
Super Fast Video&Music Downloader from browsers,you should have a try!
It’s the best one of all video download apps!It can help you to download music or videos from Instagram,Facebook,Twitter when you find.
Also it can be used as a great music player.Every video you download can play in high quailty and no use of any mobile data!
As the name show,our app can deal with music and video.When a media is downloaded from Instagram,Fackbook,Twitter,you can use our app to give them a new name as you wish,and you can even transcode video to music for free!
Super Fast Video&Music Downloader from browsers Functions:
☆ Download Video
The app support download videos from Internet.Without any limit and restriction,feel free to download whatever you like.
☆ Save Video
All videos downloaded in the app are saved in the album of the app. Downloaded video can be played offline with high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆ Video to MP3 Converter
The app provide a strong function which can transcode video to MP3.
☆ Free to use
Don't worry about the in-app purchase.Super Fast Video&Music Downloader from browsers is totally free.
☆ Web Search
The app support download videos from lots of websites such as NicoNico and Dailymotion.Videos that saved in the secret album can be played in offline and in high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆Fit panel computer
All functions and design now fit panel computer.A better experience than telephone.
☆ Build Secret Folder
The app support create secret album to keep your secret. Video in the secret folder can be played offline and in high image quality.Your secret album will not publish to anyone.
☆Play Videos in High Image quality and High Sound Quality
The app support play videos that downloaded from Internet in high image quality and high sound quality.Even if you are in offline,still you can play videos in high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆ Background Play
The app support background play which make you continuous enjoy your music or videos without any other operation.Use background play, you can have a better experience.Of course it's free.
☆ Download Video at Once
The app support download many videos at the same time.Use this free function to download as much videos as you can.Of course you can play them in offline and in high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆ Lock Function
The app support set passcode to your secret folder and secret album.Of course you can play videos that in the secret folder in offline and in high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆ Various genres of videos can be browsed
Movie, animation, music,etc.You can get many genres here and all of them can be viewed and saved.Let's download every movie,animation,music,video,etc that you want.Save them in the secret album.Play them in high image quality.Also you can use editor function to edit them.
☆ Optimized for ease to use
The app can provide you with various genres of media file such as movie,animation,music and video.You can download them for free,edit them for free,play them in offline for free,and play them in high image quality for free!Get Super Fast Video&Music Downloader from browsers,download what you want.And enjoy yourself!
※ Recommend to such people:
*Hardly find a free app which support download videos in high image quality and high sound quality.
*Can't find an ease to use app which can download videos,play them in high image quality and play them in offline mode.
*Want to get an app which is an easy music downloader and an easy video downloader.
*Can't find a good video downloader app in Google Play.Can't find a good music downloader to recommend to friends.Can't find a good play which can play video in high image quality to recommend to friends.
*Want to keep own secret from other people.Want build a secret album to keep secret.
Read more
