Feb 14, 2019
Pulwama Attack: Scorpio SUV With 350 Kg Explosives Rammed CRPF Bus 
New Delhi: Around 40 Jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force were martyred and several have been injured after a Scorpio car laden with 350 kg of explosives rammed a bus in a large security convoy at Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama. The responsibility of the attack was claimed by the terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad. The officials have called the attack, the worst in decades. The Prime Minister condemned the attack and said, "The sacrifices of our brave security personnel shall not go in vain."
Here's 10 points:
1. Around 2,500 soldiers were aboard different buses on a sanitized and heavily-protected highway when the blast took place. The attack took place at Awantipora, around 20 km from Srinagar. According to the officials, an unusually high number of personnel were on the move at the same time because the Srinagar-Jammu highway had been shut for the past two days because of bad weather.
2. Around 3.30 a.m, the convoy had reportedly left Jammu. The bus, boarded by around 39 Jawans was attacked by the suicide attacker, driving towards the convoy from the opposite direction. 
3. The blast had reduced the bus to mangled metal. Several other vehicles in the convoy were also destroyed.
4. The attack was claimed by Jaish e Mohammad, who put out a video and photos of an armed man it claimed was the suicide attacker -- Adil Ahmad Dar or Waqas Commando from Kakapora in Pulwama. Adil Ahmad joined the Jaish e Mohammad last year.
5. The attacked bus, also had bullet marks on it, that indicate that more terrorists may have been hiding and may have fired at the convoy.
6. A top CRPF officer told reporters, "It's a terror incident, we are looking into what caused it. We suspect it was a vehicle-bound attack."
7. When questioned, how the attackers could carry out the explosion on such a heavily-guarded highway, the CRPF said, "It is a matter of investigation".
8. Union Minister VK Singh tweeted: "As a soldier and a citizen of India, my blood boils at the spineless and cowardly attacks. 18 brave hearts from the @crpfindia laid down their lives in #Pulwama. I salute their selfless sacrifice & promise that every drop of our soldier's blood will be avenged. #JaiHind"
9. The attack has been slammed as the worst terror attack to take place in Kashmir. On October 1, 2001, three terrorists had rammed a Tata Sumo loaded with explosives into the main gate of the Jammu and Kashmir State Legislative Assembly complex in Srinagar -- killing 38 people. The scale of this terror strike has even surpassed the Uri attack on September 2016, when four heavily armed terrorists targeted an army brigade headquarters, claiming 19 lives. The Indian army had responded with a cross-border surgical strike in which several enemy installations were reportedly destroyed.
10. The experts of the anti-terror commando force National Security Guard (NSG) and investigators of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are being sent to Kashmir to join the probe. An NIA team with forensic experts will assist the J&K Police in forensic evaluation of the blast site.
