Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 14, 2019
Get Track It Now
use promo code X22 for 20% off your purchase!
Check Out The  X22 Report Spotlight YouTube Channel – https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1rn...
Get economic collapse news throughout the day visit http://x22report.com
Report date: 02.14.2019
Judge removes Manafort's plea deal. McCabe admits everything,[RR] is leaving his post, he never testified but he has no problem speaking to reporters. Mueller's insurance policy is almost up. MSM prepares the public for Mueller's Russian Collusion report, they are projected on how nothing was found. Trump is reviewing the border bill, there are tons of landmines in it, as expected, Trump might sign the bill, then issue a National Emergency to get around the restrictions in the bill. Q drops more bread, post pics of China, it seems Q and team are letting us ride around the police car while they surveil targets.
All source links to the report can be found on the x22report.com site.
Most of artwork that are included with these videos have been created by X22 Report and they are used as a representation of the subject matter. The representative artwork included with these videos shall not be construed as the actual events that are taking place.
Intro Video Music: YouTube Free Music: Cataclysmic Molten Core by Jingle Punks
Intro Music: YouTube Free Music: Warrior Strife by Jingle Punks
Fair Use Notice: This video contains some copyrighted material whose use has not been authorized by the copyright owners. We believe that this not-for-profit, educational, and/or criticism or commentary use on the Web constitutes a fair use of the copyrighted material (as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. If you wish to use this copyrighted material for purposes that go beyond fair use, you must obtain permission from the copyright owner. Fair Use notwithstanding we will immediately comply with any copyright owner who wants their material removed or modified, wants us to link to their web site, or wants us to add their photo.
The X22 Report is "one man's opinion". Anything that is said on the report is either opinion, criticism, information or commentary,  If making any type of investment or legal decision it would be wise to contact or consult a professional before making that decision.
Use the information found in these videos as a starting point for conducting your own research and conduct your own due diligence before making any significant investing decisions.
Category
