Please find below China Itinerary, we can customise as per your requirement.
China - 06 Days & 05 Nights:
Day 01: Guangzhou (B/D)
On arrival, you will be met at the airport & transferred to your hotel. Dinner at the Indian Restaurant. Overnight at hotel.
Day 02: Guangzhou((B/D)
Today, you will take a city tour of YueXiu Park, the scenic park of Guangzhou，Yuexiu Park is known for providing immense and comprehensive cultural recreation. Recently it also has been nominated as one of the ten best scenic parks. Its Zhen Hai building and five ram statues are nominated for the ten best scenic sites. Later you will go to Shangxiajiu Pedestrian Street is a commercial pedestrian street in Liwan District. Shangxiajiu is composed of the unique and ancient architecture of Tong Lau and teahouses, featuring the characteristics of European and Chinese styles. Evening you will enjoy Pearl River Cruise, Pearl River is the third longest river in China and the night cruise out of Guangzhou is an excursion no to be missed. Originating from Baietan, the boat will take you east to Guangzhou Bridge and south to Baihe Cave. On this leisure and romantic two-hour trip, you will see millions of lights of the city and colorfully-decorated lanterns shining along the river. Later, you can have a photo stop at Guangzhou Tower. Dinner at Indian restaurant.Overnight at hotel.
Day 03 Guangzhou - Shenzhen: (B/D) By coach
Early morning, after breakfast at the hotel. Get transferred to Shenzhen. Then you will visit Window of the World is a theme park directed at Chinese new to world travel. You can see all of mankind's major attractions.Dinner at Indian restaurant.Overnight at hotel.
Day 04 Shenzhen - Guilin: (B/D) by high speed train: G312 1228/1525
Shenzhen: Breakfast at the hotel,then be transferred to train station
Guilin：On arrival, you will be met at the airport & transferred to your hotel.Then half day visit of Elephant Trunk Hill . It is a huge rock formation of an elephant by the confluence of the Yang and Li rivers, which looks as if its trunk, dipping into the water. The next wonder to visit is Reed Flute Cave, is named after a certain kind of reed grown near the carve gate, which is used for making a flute instrument. The natural beauty of a large amount of stalactites and stalagmites, with their endless variety of remarkable scenes in the cave could undoubtedly evoke breathless admiration from you. Thus, the cave is highly praised as the Huge Art Palace of the Nature.Dinner at Indian restaurant.Overnight at hotel.
Day 05 Guilin: (B/D)
Depart from your hotel in the morning and begin your Half -Li River Cruise which is the masterpiece of nature. The crystal water, picturesque mountains, peaceful farm field, hard-working fishermen and wondering water buffalos compose a poem of Guilin scenery and life. Under the blue sky, your river boat is floating on the river, making you in an unreal dream. After you disembark the Western-influenced town-Yangshuo ,you can roam at the West Street , it earns its name since almost every one in West Street can speak fluent English and every restaurant or bar offers menus in several languages. You feel no boarder and distance here and fall in love with the town at the first sight. Moreover, it is flanked by small shops and vendor stands selling different kinds of souvenirs, which are the best gifts for your friends and relatives. Return to Guilin in the late afternoon. Dinner at Indian restaurant.Overnight at hotel.
Day 06 Guilin - Airport
Breakfast at the hotel. Get transferred to the airport for departure.
***** End of Services *****
Package Price: Starting from:
USD 810  per person in double sharing.
Note: Prices subject to availability. Valid Upto December 2019. the prices are tentative. we will customise the package as per the requirement 
Tour Includes:
Private transfers between airports/railway stations, hotels and all sightseeing spots as mentioned. Separated transfer will incur extra charges.
Hotel accommodation based on two adults sharing one standard twin-bed room
Daily Breakfast at hotel.
One driver and one English-speaking guide on normal sightseeing activities in each destination.
All First-Gate entrance fees to scenic spots as shown in the itinerary. The final arrangement will be determined by Indian tour guides based on the Indian circumstances which are beyond the control of Top View Holiday. TVH will adhere to the original itinerary as accurately as possible
Daily Dinner
