Dan Bongino: ‘The Russian Collusion Fairytale Is Finally, Fully, Completely Collapsing’
By Michael Morris | February 14, 2019 | 1:11 PM EST
Host of "The Dan Bongino Show" Podcast and Fox News contributor Dan Bongino (Screenshot)
Filling in for nationally syndicated radio talk show host Mark Levin on “ The Mark Levin Show ” Wednesday, host Dan Bongino announced that “[t]he Russian collusion fairytale is finally, fully, completely collapsing.”
“The Russian collusion fairytale is finally, fully, completely collapsing and taking down all of the imbeciles and morons who promoted this colossal, tier-one level hoax to every impressionable sucker who [slurping noise] sucked it up like a bunch of idiots,” stated Dan Bongino while filling in for Mark Levin.
“In case you missed it, Richard Burr [(R-N.C.)], who’s the chairman of the Senate Intel Committee, … finally comes out yesterday and admits … [that] they haven’t found anything,” Bongino said later in the show.
Dan Bongino’s comments on Mark Levin’s show came after “Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), the intelligence committee chairman, told NBC News , ‘There is no factual evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia,’” according to CNSNews.com . Bongino also references a tweet he responded to by Natasha Bertrand , “a staff writer at The Atlantic, where she covers national security and the intelligence community,” who said the following on her Twitter page :
“Chuck Rosenberg gave me another example: you wake up with snow on your front lawn. Do you have direct evidence that it snowed? No. But the circumstantial evidence is strong, and far more likely than someone driving up to your house and throwing snow on your lawn.”
Below is a transcript of Dan Bongino’s remarks form the show Wednesday:
“The Russian collusion fairytale is finally, fully, completely collapsing and taking down all of the imbeciles and morons who promoted this colossal, tier-one level hoax to every impressionable sucker who [slurping noise] sucked it up like a bunch of idiots.
“In case you missed it, Richard Burr, who’s the chairman of the Senate Intel Committee, not a diehard conservative, and certainly not some kind of flamethrower – he’s a Republican, but a very, I don’t know how to say it, ‘milktoast,’ ‘level-toned,’ kinda moderate, down-the-middle guy – who’s been, I think to our detriment  more than willing to entertain allegations of collusion, finally comes out yesterday and admits after a leak by NBC News about the Senate Intel Committee report that marrying up with the House’s investigation, the House Select Committee on this, marrying up with their charges that there is no direct evidence of this collusion. They haven’t found anything despite multiple witnesses, hundreds of documents, testimony, countless dollars. They have found nothing. This marries up with the Mueller probe, which has yet to find a darn thing about collusion.
“Now, the liberal media— I was just reading a tweet by the hilarious— What’s her name? Natasha Bertrand. Natasha Bertrand. What’s her—Where does she— I mean, hold on. I’m doing this— She writes at The Atlantic. Oh, she’s an[sic] MSNBS— Oh, sorry. She’s MSNBC contributor. I thought she was a journalist. So, she’s an MSNBC contributor, meaning, of course, she’s a comedian by nature. But maybe she’s pretending to be a journalist. I don’t know. But making some allegation, well, ‘Well, we look out the window and we see snow on the ground, and although we didn’t see it snow, it’s not direct evidence that it snowed, but we see the snow, so we can assume it snowed.’
“That was just— That was genius. What fantastic analysis by Natasha Bertrand, comedian over at MSDNC. That is great work.
“So, I responded to this hilarious tweet. Let me just read it. I shouldn’t read tweets on the air, but still it’s funny anyway. I think it’s funny because it’s mine. You should never laugh at your own jokes, but we’re throwing all the radio rules out the window today. So, I tweet , hey, listen, I’m sorry for retweeting this. ‘You’re [basically] all dumber for having seen [this] below tweet from a ‘journalist.’ But I feel an obligation to sacrifice a few collective neurons in order to show you how ridiculous the media loons have become in the Trump era.’
“Ladies and gentlemen, there is no evidence of this collusion. They can’t find it anywhere.”
