Dems Caught RED HANDED Slipping ‘Poison Pill’ Into Deal That Could Prevent Building The Wall
February 14, 2019 Martin
Share Tweet
Congressional negotiators announced earlier this week that they have a border wall funding agreement that they believe President Donald Trump will sign into law.
However, buried deep in the 1,159 page measure is a hidden measure that could prevent the 55 miles of wall from being built with the funds from the deal.
Get Your “Build The Wall” Coin For 50% Off And We’ll Send Nancy Pelosi A Foam Brick!
On Wednesday night, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell revealed that Democrats slipped in provisions that would allow small town mayors to veto any part of a wall built in their specific jurisdictions if they want.
That would mean town mayors located on the southern border would be able to block the construction of the wall.
Fox News dedicated an entire segment to the “poison pill” that Democrats slipped into the deal and what it might mean going forward.
WATCH:
As noted by Fox 26 Houston , here are more details from the bipartisan border deal:
Republicans were desperate to avoid another bruising shutdown. They tentatively agreed to far less money for President Donald Trump’s border wall than the White House’s $5.7 billion wish list, settling for a figure of nearly $1.4 billion, according to congressional aides. The funding measure is through the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
The agreement means 55 miles of new fencing — constructed through existing designs such as metal slats instead of a concrete wall — but far less than the 215 miles the White House demanded in December. The fencing would be built in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas.
[…]
The pact also includes increases for new technologies such as advanced screening at border entry point, humanitarian aid sought by Democrats, and additional customs officers.
The Trump administration also made it a high priority to have more funding to hire additional Border Patrol agents, implement more technology to secure the border, and provide additional resources to Ports of Entry.
Here’s more from Fox 26 Houston:
Trump traveled to El Paso, Texas, for a campaign-style rally Monday night focused on immigration and border issues. He has been adamant that Congress approve money for a wall along the Mexican border, though he no longer repeats his 2016 mantra that Mexico will pay for it, and he took to the stage as lawmakers back in Washington were announcing their breakthrough.
“They said that progress is being made with this committee,” Trump told his audience, referring to the congressional bargainers. “Just so you know, we’re building the wall anyway.”
Wonder why Democrats buried that massive detail in the deal?
It’s likely because they didn’t think anyone would notice. Or, more importantly, they are trying to be slick and bury a provision that could prevent Trump from actually getting the wall built in critical areas.
The government is set to shut down on Feb. 15, but Trump said he was going to add and remove some items from the deal and send it back over to Congress.
