The interactive transcript could not be loaded.
Loading...
Rating is available when the video has been rented.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later.
Published on Feb 14, 2019
In this episode recorded 14th February 2019 we are severely limited on time, however, we still manage to briefly discuss. The history of the $23 Trillion fraud bailout in 2008, upcoming 911 military tribunal,  the border wall cover story, recent LA raids, desperation of the late term abortion push and discuss some upcoming dates that are important to watch in this ongoing battle for planetary liberation! Could March be the apocalypse? (apocalypse means to reveal)
Dates to watch this coming week:
15th – New government shutdown?
18th – Gorge Washington’s Birthday.
19th – French Resistance ready on the full moon.
For previous releases in this long-running  series of interviews:
Benjamin Fulford continues to work to liberate the planet from the bad guys. He is literally fighting to bring freedom and new life to humanity.
Let’s take our cue from Benjamin Fulford… and turn our world into a wonderful place!
As Benjamin says, don’t just sit on the sidelines, pick up the phone and call your elected officials and respectfully demand answers to these gross atrocities that have plagued our way of life for far too long. The stronger our collective voice, the quicker we effect change.
Please consider a donation
We are an all-volunteer organization. We do set aside a little money to support our website, but nearly all of your donations to PrepareForChange.net support about 460 children in an orphanage we funded in Malawi, Africa.
Think about donating to these children, who have lost their parents. You can donate here.
Prepare For Change would also like to thank Miss Merrilee for providing our interview announcements, such a gracious and wonderful lady! To see her own shows please check out themerrileeshow.com
Also, a big thank you to www.rays-portal.com for helping PFC with the Audio engineering.
As always try to raise your vibration and remain loving to one another, we’re all one, and we’re all going to bring about a new world!.
Victory of the Light!
