Royal Bank of Scotland
One in 10 support quick sale of government's RBS stake, poll finds
Shares in bank are worth less than half what was paid at time of £45bn bailout in 2008
Thu 14 Feb 2019 05.45 EST
Last modified on Thu 14 Feb 2019 10.56 EST
Share via Email
The Treasury plans to sell the entire public stake of 62% in RBS by 2023-2024. Photograph: Neil Hall/Reuters
Fewer than one in 10 people support a quick sale of the government’s majority stake in Royal Bank of Scotland , while two-thirds worry the bank will fail to serve the public interest once in private hands, a poll shows.
A YouGov survey, commissioned by the campaign group Positive Money, found 9% of respondents believe the UK government should sell its stake in the near future in order to recoup what money it can, even if it means doing so at a loss to the public purse.
That is compared with 34% who believe the Treasury should wait for the RBS share price to recover before selling, while a further 32% believe privatisation efforts should be delayed while RBS is run as a nationalised bank.
The results come ahead of the bank’s full-year results on Friday, with RBS widely expected to log its second annual profit since its £45bn government bailout in 2008. The City is expecting a near-doubling of profits to £1.4bn for 2018, from £752m a year earlier. It has prompted rumours the Treasury is considering a further stake sale that would help reduce its 62% holding in RBS.
The Treasury plans to sell the entire public stake by 2023-2024, but is projected to lose about £28.5bn in the process, according to the Treasury’s independent forecaster, the Office for Budget Responsibility . That loss is the result of a drop in the share price, with the Treasury having paid 502p per share in 2008. RBS shares were trading at 243p on Thursday morning.
The bank has also been given the go-ahead to buy up to 4.99% or about £1.4bn worth of shares from the government as part of efforts to cut the publicly owned stake in the lender. It received overwhelming shareholder support for the move at a general meeting in Edinburgh earlier this month.
The most recent poll – which tallied responses from 2,000 adults – also showed 58% of respondents think RBS would not be run in the public interest if it returned to private ownership. That is compared with 12% who believe it would.
It signals continuing public mistrust in banking more than a decade on from the financial crisis. A separate poll conducted by YouGov in 2013 yielded similar results to the latest survey, with 9% favouring a near-term sale.
Positive Money has launched a public petition urging the chancellor, Philip Hammond, to cancel any further sale of RBS shares and keep the bank under public ownership with a “mission to serve the public interest”.
The campaign group’s executive director, Fran Boait, said: “The government has an opportunity to ensure that in the future, RBS works in the public interest. A huge number of improvements are possible, from shifting its lending towards SMEs to expanding access to banking services in communities which are currently under served.”
Labour has previously signalled plans to make it mandatory for RBS to lend to small businesses using government funds. The shadow economic secretary to the Treasury, Jonathan Reynolds, recently said a Labour government would halt further stake sales but would not be involved in the day-to-day running of RBS.
A Treasury spokesperson said: “The government intervened in RBS to protect people’s savings and businesses. But private investors, not taxpayers, should bear the risk of companies such as RBS, and that’s why we’ve committed to returning the bank to private ownership. But we will only sell RBS shares when it represents value for money for the taxpayer.”
An RBS spokesperson said: “The timing and price of any government share sale is a matter for the Treasury. Our focus continues to be on building a bank that delivers for shareholders, customers and the UK economy.”
Topics
