Mayawati
Attack carried out by Pak-sponsored JeM will be avenged: Rajnath Singh
Rajnath Singh will be visiting Srinagar Friday to take stock of the situation in the wake of the Pulwama attack. The home ministry is also closely monitoring the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, which is currently under the President's rule. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi may meet on Friday to take stock of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.
PTI | Updated: Feb 15, 2019, 07:56 IST
Highlights
Rajnath Singh will be visiting Srinagar Friday to take stock of the situation
We assure the country that we will undertake whatever it takes to avenge this: Rajnath Singh
The Cabinet Committee on Security, headed by Prime Minister Modi likely to meet on Friday
Related Videos
Terror attack in Pulwama evoke...
NEW DELHI: Home minister Rajnath Singh Thursday assured the people of the country that the terror attack on a CRPF bus in Jammu and Kashmir, carried out by Pakistan-sponsored Jaish-e-Mohammed, will be avenged.
In a statement , he said the central government is determined to foil the designs of those who want to disrupt peace through such a terror attack "sponsored and sheltered by Pakistan".
"Jaish-e-Mohammed has carried out this terror attack. We assure the country that we will undertake whatever it takes to avenge this," he said.
आज पाकिस्तान स्थित और उनके द्वारा संरक्षित आतंकवादी संगठन जैश-ए -मोहम्मद ने कश्मीर में एक हृदय विदारक आतंकवादी हमला… https://t.co/p7uQSYVxkr
— Rajnath Singh (@rajnathsingh) 1550160357000
Singh will be visiting Srinagar Friday to take stock of the situation in the wake of the attack on the convoy that killed at least 37 CRPF personnel.
He will also hold review meetings with senior security and police officials to make ground level assessment and review further operational actions.
Singh has cancelled all his political engagements in Bihar Friday.
He called up Governor Satya Pal Malik, who apprised him about the prevailing situation in the state. Singh also spoke to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Union Home Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Director of Intelligence Bureau Rajiv Jain and Director General of CRPF R R Bhatnagar and gave them necessary instructions, a home ministry official said.
In a tweet, Singh said, "Today's dastardly attack on CRPF in Pulwama (J&K) is extremely painful and disturbing. I bow to each and every CRPF jawan who has sacrificed his life in service to the nation. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured."
The home ministry is also closely monitoring the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, which is currently under the President's rule.
The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi may meet on Friday to take stock of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir.
The CCS, the country's top decision making body on strategic affairs, comprises the Home Minister, the Defence Minister, the External Affairs Minister and the Finance Minister besides the Prime Minister.
At least 37 CRPF personnel were killed in Pulwama when the Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist rammed an explosives-laden vehicle into the bus they were travelling in.
This is one of the worst terror strikes in the state since the Uri attack in 2016
