Next
BRADENTON, Fla. – The New England Revolution opened the second leg of the club's preseason with a friendly against Louisville City FC at IMG Academy on Thursday afternoon. New England fell, 3-1, to Louisville, with the team's lone goal coming from Homegrown Player Justin Rennicks in the 68th minute.
Louisville City opened the scoring in the 3rd minute, when Speedy Williams finished a cross from Brian Ownby with a header inside of the near post. Louisville would double its lead in the 29th minute, as Niall McCabe beat Cody Cropper with a right-footed shot from close range inside the far post. Midfielder Luis Caicedo gave New England its best scoring chance of the first half, slotting a shot from the penalty area that was tipped away by Louisville goalkeeper Tim Dobrowolski.
On the other side of halftime, Louisville added a third goal from Magnus Rasmussen, who tucked a curled, left-footed shot inside of the far post. Shortly after Revolution head coach Brad Friedel made five changes to the lineup, Rennicks pulled one back for New England with his first goal of the preseason – finishing a left-footed cross from Tajon Buchanan with a powerful header.
The Revolution return to action on Saturday, Feb. 16, when the club faces Minnesota United FC in the inaugural Orlando City Invitational. While in Florida, New England will also face Orlando City SC (Feb. 20) and KR Reykjavik (Feb. 23). The match against Reykjavik will take place at IMG Academy in Bradenton, while the MLS contests will be hosted by Orlando City at the Lions’ inaugural Orlando City Invitational tournament.
New England Revolution 1, Louisville City FC 3
February 14, 2019 – IMG Academy (Bradenton, Fla.)
Scoring Summary:
LCFC – Speedy Williams (Brian Ownby) 3'
LCFC – Niall McCabe (Unassisted) 29'
LCFC – Magnus Rasmussen (Sunny Jane) 65'
NE – Justin Rennicks (Tajon Buchanan) 68'
Misconduct Summary:
NE – Luis Caicedo (Yellow Card) 47'
NE – Jalil Anibaba (Yellow Card) 50'
NE – Wilfried Zahibo (Yellow Card) 77'
LCFC – Sunny Jane (Yellow Card) 85'
New England Revolution: Cody Cropper, Gabriel Somi (Edgar Castillo 65'), Michael Mancienne © (Jalil Anibaba HT), Trialist, DeJuan Jones (Brandon Bye 65'), Luis Caicedo (Wilfried Zahibo 65'), Isaac Angking (Justin Rennicks 65'), Nicolas Firmino (Scott Caldwell HT), Tajon Buchanan, Diego Fagundez (Teal Bunbury HT), Brian Wright (Juan Agudelo 65')
Louisville City FC: Tim Dobrowolski, Sean Totsch, Paco Craig, Alexis Souahy, Oscar Jimenez, Paolo DelPiccolo, Speedy Williams, Niall McCabe, Brian Ownby, George Davis IV, Luke Spencer
Louisville City FC (65th minute): Ben Lundt, Magnus Rasmussen, Napo Matsoso, Pat McMahon, Taylor Peay, Sunny Jane, Abdou Mbacke Thiam, Lucky Mkonsana, Jose Carranza, Shaun Francis, Geoff Dee
