Patrick Corbin leaves positive first impressions during his first day of Spring Training
Patrick Corbin leaves positive first impressions during his first day of Spring Training
Deja vu for Washington fans with Harper's contract talks
This is a season of firsts for the Nationals’ newest ace. Not only is it Patrick Corbin’s first season with the Nationals, but it’s his first Spring Training in the state of Florida, as he spent the first part of his career playing in the Cactus League with the Arizona Diamondbacks.
“First time in florida, trying to find a place to live,” Corbin said when explaining why he arrived in West Palm Beach extra early. “Get settled in, a lot going on, just getting down here, meeting the guys, stuff like that.”
Early on in Spring Training, there isn’t much tangible to go on when evaluating new acquisitions. Most baseball fans are used to grainy pictures from a distance of their free agent pitchers, or shaky cell phone footage of players in the batting cages.
Dave Martinez still managed to come away feeling good about the Nats’ biggest signing of the offseason.
“He’s very intense,” according to the Nationals’ skipper. “I watched him throw his bullpen today, and he gets after it. I love what I’ve seen so far. In talking to him, he’s matured a lot, just by talking to him, and his game plan, and he’s bought in from day one. This is the place he wanted to be, it’s a testament to this organization. He could have [gone] elsewhere, and he chose us. I’m glad he did.”
Martinez isn’t the only one happy to have Corbin in camp. Longtime ace Max Scherzer understands how critical it is to have strong starting pitching when trying to compete for a World Series.
“It’s fun to be a part of great rotations, go out there and compete,” Scherzer said. “At the end of the day, your starting staff is the backbone of your team, going out there providing stability day in and day out, being reliable.”
Corbin threw 200 innings last season with a 3.15 ERA and 246 strikeouts. He finished fifth in Cy Young voting in the National League, and he was named an All-Star for the second time in his career. He’s definitely established himself as somebody who can help solidify the Nationals rotation and provide the stability Scherzer values.
Those strong numbers led to Corbin signing his 6-year $140 million contract. It was a well-earned deal, though some have wondered if it might lead to extra pressure on Corbin, especially considering the disappointing season the franchise had in 2018.
Martinez was quick to put those qualms to bed.
“In talking to Pat, getting to know him a little bit, he’s a guy that doesn’t think about it that way. He really doesn’t. He just wants to come in and help us win games, and I think he’s already fit in,” said Martinez. “He feels very comfortable, and I told him ‘Hey, nothing changes. You’re going to go out there every five days, and you’re going to compete. Just like you always have, so that’s all we ask you to do,’ and he’s all in.” 
Corbin doubled down on those thoughts.
“I don’t know, I’ve always just tried to have a routine,” he explained when asked about trying to justify his big contract. “To be able to go out there and compete every fifth day, that’s really all I’m focusing on. It’s good that that’s over with, and I’ll be here for six years, so I just need to come in every day, try to get better and help this team win ballgames.”
Corbin certainly is dedicated to trying to help the team win. He got married in November, but signed with Washington shortly thereafter. As a result, he and his wife chose to postpone their scheduled honeymoon so they could deal with moving to D.C. and preparing for Spring Training.
It’s a positive sign for the Nationals that Corbin is so keen on getting to work early and building a rapport with his new teammates, but Scherzer knows it will still take some time.
“It’s a little early for that,” Scherzer quipped when asked about his first impressions of Corbin. “We’re acquaintances, but you don’t really know somebody until August...You don’t know those guys until you’re in the thick of it.”
There’s plenty of time for Corbin to get to know Scherzer and the rest of the pitching staff. For know? He’s happy just to be getting started with his first Spring Training in Florida. If everything goes well, it could help lead the Nats to one of the best rotations in baseball.
“You know, I do,” said Martinez when asked if he thought his rotation might be the best in Major League Baseball. “I do believe that, I really do.”
MORE NATIONALS NEWS: 
