You can post comments! By posting comments, you can converse with a perfomer or viewers1
Please refrain from posting harassing, offensive, and vulgar comments.
Tweet
Next
When you click this button to post comments on Twitter, Twitter icon will display on your avatar during live performance.
You will receive 5 free gifts per show.
Event
A performer will display details about his/her participating Event.
Check "Level," "Ranking," and "Points" inside the Event and cheer on your favorite perfomer!
To cheer on your favorite perfomer, link your Showroom account with Twitter or Facebook.
To cheer on your favorite perfomer
Throw a gift (1Show Gold =1 Point)
・Free gifts will be counted as 1 Point. ((※)
・Tap gifts repeatedly, and you will gain more points.
・All the Room viewers' points will display on Support Meter.
Post comments (1 comment = 1 Point)
・ your can post up to 50 comments. (※)
※If you want to cheer on your favorite perfomer by sending free gifts and comments, you need to link your SHOWROOM account with Twitter or Facebook.
What do you get when you send gifts to your favorite performers?
When a perfomer reaches his/her goal, a perfomer will do what he/she promised to do!
Support points are different among Event or Room.
What a perfomer promised to do will be different from Event or Room.
Comment log
Display the list of comments viewers made during broadcasting.
This could be helpful for viewers who joined the Room after the show has started.
Ranking
Next
Display viewer ranking for the Room you are currently in.
Each live performance is designed to allow the highest paying viewers/users on gifts move closer to the stage.
If you send a gift and get VIP seat right in front of the monitor, your favorite performer might notice you?!
Gift logs
Next
Display the list of gifts that were sent to the performer.
Only paid items will display. You can cheer on your favorite artist by sending many gifts!
Types of gifts depend on performers and Event.
Menu
Next
You can view this perfomer's profile.
Click "Follow" button to start following your favorite performer! Next performance by this artist will be displayed on your time table.
Share with your friends via Facebook and Twitter
Turn the sound on/off or adjust volume
Update, Purchase Show Gold, Tutorial, Report etc.
About manner
Close
Posting comments that may offend performers or other users is strictly prohibited.
Do not respond to the offensive comments, even if your intention is to correct the situation. Please refrain from reacting to offensive comments.
If you find users who are causing troubles at live performance, use report function to contact SHOWROOM Management Office.
Report
