This site works best in IE9 and up and in other modern web browsers
Trump Calls on Rep. Ilhan Omar to Resign Over Anti-Semitic Tweets
News Commentary
By Rusty | Featured Contributor | February 12, 2019 3:21PM
President Donald Trump slammed Rep. Ilhan Omar’s apology for publishing anti-Semitic tweets, saying it was “lame” and called on her to resign from Congress.
Omar went on an  anti-Semitic twitter rant  over the weekend, prompting a backlash from prominent politicians on both sides of the political aisle. She used a stereotype about Jews being motivated by money, then accused a prominent lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), of paying members of Congress to support Israel.
Upon getting heat from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi over the remarks, Omar issued an apology that amounted to ‘sorry, not sorry.’
More from The Political Insider
“I unequivocally apologize,” she wrote before equivocating things by adding, “at the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA, or the fossil fuel industry. It’s gone on too long and we must be willing to address it.”
The President didn’t find Omar’s apology to be especially convincing.
President Trump on anti-Semitic Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-MN) “Her lame apology, and that’s what it was, it was lame, and she didn’t mean a word of it, was just not appropriate. I think she should resign from Congress.” pic.twitter.com/ZLFwDOttqa
— Ryan Saavedra (@RealSaavedra) February 12, 2019
Trump added that Omar “should be ashamed of herself” and if she doesn’t resign from Congress then she should most “certainly resign from the Foreign Affairs Committee.”
Should She Resign?
President Trump isn’t the only one calling out Omar for resignation. House GOP conference chair Liz Cheney (R-WY) immediately called for Omar’s removal from the House Foreign Affairs Committee after the comments surfaced.
“This CANNOT be tolerated in our own Congress by anyone of either party,” former United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley wrote. “In a time of increased antisemitism, we all must be held to account.”
Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) noted that when Rep. Steve King (R-IA) apologized for controversial remarks he made last month, he was still taken off of his committee assignments .
Democrat Ilhan Omar has called Israel “evil,” compared Israel to Iran, continues to push anti-Semitic tropes, and supports the anti-Semitic BDS movement to boycott Israel.
Nancy Pelosi was wrong to elevate her to the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Now Pelosi should remove her.
— Ronna McDaniel (@GOPChairwoman) February 11, 2019
“Just last month, you had House Democrats tripping all over each other, running to the floor of the House of Representatives to condemn white supremacy in a resolution that named Congressman Steve King. He apologized,” Zeldin recalled. “And now, we have those same members – many of them tripping over each other, running away from the House floor, so they don’t have to condemn anti-Semitism.”
Read this Next on ThePoliticalInsider.com
Thus far, despite her words condemning Omar’s comments, Pelosi has refused to remove her from the Foreign Affairs Committee.
What's Your Reaction?
