Print Recipe
These Chicken Tikka Chapati Burritos are Indian and Mexican fusion food you can eat on the go including a super tasty made-from-scratch marinade is so tasty and easy too!
Ow ow ow ow. I’m in so much pain right now. No need for concern – it’s all self-inflicted.
I started my personal training sessions again last night, followed by an outdoor fitness class this morning. My body is screaming at me to lie down and watch TV until at least Sunday, but I’ve arranged another mini-workout session tomorrow with a friend.
I’m not normally (or ever?) this enthusiastic about exercise, but something needs to be done about my sausage thighs.
All that weight I lost (if you remember those before and after pics from my May 2016 income report ?) – Yeah, I’m almost back to the before picture again grrrrr!
MY LATEST VIDEOS
MY LATEST VIDEOS
Getting an extension done and having no kitchen for several months (too much convenience food and chocolate treats), plus Christmas and my general tendency to eat like a starving hippopotamus, have been my excuses for too long now, so I’m back on track again. I’ll be back at that ‘after’ picture by the end of next month!
All of that doesn’t stop me from still wanting junk food and takeaways though, so instead i’m cooking it at home.
These Chicken Tikka Chapati Burritos contain chicken pieces marinated in made-from-scratch tikka paste, then grilled or barbecued until just charred. So good! All wrapped up in a chapati and topped with rice, veggies, yogurt and a little mango chutney. I like to add a few sliced chillies too for a bit of heat.
 
These Chicken Tikka Chapati Burritos are definitely a meal to make me feel better about my achy muscles, without the millions of calories in a creamy Indian curry.  Mmmm curry, i love a good curry like this  slow-cooked spicy chicken curry or this delicious Chicken Jalfrezi .
Are you on a weight-loss/fitness pursuit too? I’d love to hear of any tasty recipes you enjoy to keep you on track!
The Chicken Tikka Chapati Burrito Recipe:
Chicken Tikka Chapati Burritos
Chicken Tikka Chapati Burritos - the made-from-scratch marinade is so tasty and easy too! Makes a great alternative to sandwiches for the lunchbox!
4.67 from 3 votes
