Print
By Douglas  Ernst -         The Washington Times  -                         Thursday, February 14, 2019
Conservative YouTube star Mark Dice and Wikipedia are in a fight that is seemingly out of a George Orwell novel.
“He who controls the past controls the future. He who controls the present controls the past,” is a line known throughout the world by science fiction fans, but its lesson is very real for Mr. Dice . Wikipedia blocked him this week over a years-long debate on what his biography page should contain.
In short, a select cadre of editors control what millions see about Mr. Dice — and those editors are intent on highlighting him first and foremost as a “conspiracy theorist” whose career stalled in 2015.
The pundit was the first conservative YouTuber to hit 1 million subscribers in May 2017, and he currently maintains a fan base of 1.4 million.
His daily videos also average 250,000 views.
Two of his Amazon best-selling books — “The True Story of Fake News” and “Liberalism: Find a Cure” — were removed from the page because there were “no reliable sources that mentioned them as being significant.”
Wikipedia editors also claim that his subscriber count is not relevant because they may be “manipulated.”
“The [left-wing] Young Turks has their subscriber count mentioned but I’m just not allowed,” Mr. Dice said in a YouTube video uploaded Thursday.
He added on Twitter on Thursday that Wikipedia editors were no longer allowing him to participate in the discussion.
. @Wikipedia blocked me from even engaging in the discussion on the Talk Page.  This is bull  @jimmy_wales pic.twitter.com/Kusxa3aIew
— Mark Dice (@MarkDice) February 14, 2019
Editors insisted they are honest brokers of information on a Wikipedia page dedicated to the issue.
“We cover what reliable sources say about Dice . The Washington Times and other fringe publications don’t count,” an editor wrote. “The reason Dice ’s article doesn’t include his subscriber count while others do is because he has been trying to write his own biography for years, emphasizing things sources don’t emphasize … Most of us here would support removing subscriber counts from other youtubers. ‘But person X has a subscriber count!’ isn’t a good argument to include it here.”
The editor neglected to note why The Washington Times, an award-winning newspaper established in 1982 and regularly featured on Fox News, The Drudge Report and other major media outlets, is a “fringe” outlet.
“It’s obvious that the editors at Wikipedia have a huge liberal bias and are preventing anyone from updating my page to accurately reflect my career, my political positions and my success,” Mr. Dice said Thursday.
The conservative pundit thanked Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales for taking part in the discussion, but said: “It appears that he has created a monster and Wikipedia is not under his control.”
Update: Wikipedia editors erased Mr. Dice ’s education credentials — he has bachelor’s degree in Communication — after the publication of this story.
Copyright © 2019 The Washington Times, LLC. Click here for reprint permission .
The Washington Times Comment Policy
The Washington Times welcomes your comments on Spot.im, our third-party provider. Please read our Comment Policy before commenting.
 
Click to Read More and View Comments
Click to Hide
Top Stories
