February 14, 2019
Chicago police have now interviewed Jussie Smollett again after they found two people of interest and they are not white rednecks. The police did not identify the two people’s names, but they did say that one of them is a co-star of Smollett on Empire. They were able to track their movements on the airplane they flew in on and rideshare/taxicab records. That placed them near the scene of the alleged attack. If true, this is a real game changer and means that either there was no attack, or that one of the attackers was known to him, and he perpetrated a hoax that cost law enforcement tens of thousands of dollars.
Via  TMZ :
Jussie Smollett is being questioned again by Chicago PD … and officers are also talking to another man, an actor who has also appeared on “Empire” … TMZ has learned.
Sources connected to the case tell us the actor, not Jussie, was picked up by Chicago PD Wednesday night right after he flew into O’Hare Airport. We’re told Jussie was brought in Thursday morning for additional questioning. Another man who was with the actor at O’Hare was also taken in for questioning.
The two individuals are being questioned as “persons of interest.” Police won’t say if they are the same 2 people seen in the grainy image released last month. But, law enforcement sources tell TMZ, they believe the 2 people were at the scene of the alleged attack.
From The Gateway Pundit
According to TMZ, Chicago police ID’d the two “persons of interest” by tracking their rideshare/taxicab records to track their locations on the night of the alleged MAGA polar vortex attack.
‘Empire’ actor Jussie Smollett claims he was attacked by white racist Trump supporters on Jan. 29th in the streets of Chicago at 2 AM when he ventured out to get a sandwich at Subway.
Mr. Smollett alleges two white males hurled racial and homophobic slurs at him, beat his ass, poured bleach on his head and put a noose around his neck.
My book is here!  And I personally handed a copy to our President at the White House!!! I hope you enjoy it 
@
