What about beauty as a ruling on value
Beauty Butterfly Symbol
       We live in a world of beauty, we never stop talking about it as far as it surrounds as! Whenever we want to buy, to give, to get.., something, we think about this moral value because it is a great part of the human instinctive feeling! But, does beauty really exist as an absolute fact?! Can it be just a relative concept that is linked to each individual's opinion?! Is there any universal common criterion?! Do we really know that we have got good things depending on our personal imposed standards?! Can we be unjust towards our selves and others too when we set a moral eclectic tool to get married, to hire someone, to nominate or crown someone..?! Is it logical to make a hasty beauty preference judgment?!
How can beauty redirect human life:
      Allah (our creator) says in the Quran what means " We have created the human being in the best entire form " and everything too! Surely there are some exceptions like prohibited animal's flesh, some drinks.., but they are clear and limited, even a baby can instinctively decipher them..! So, all the universe is exclusively full of beauty and what happens next is a human being truth twisting! Why, because of the inherited fallacies (paralogism) we get from our ancestors and which's deeply entrenched in our subconscious mind that should be updated..!
      It is generous and desirable to think of it and to say this thing is nice, but the undesirable mistake is to say " this thing is better than this one ", especially when it comes to human beings! Surely we do that randomly, depending, in fact, on our personal vagary, the true egoism phase..!
      We often focus on the outside appearance to schedule anything if it belongs to a niceness checkbox or not! Here we forget about ourselves, we don't really think that we are all the same and the difference can only be touch in each one's piety..! But who can know or decide upon someone's piety degree?! Only Allah (our creator) as far as it is a question of prescience! We don't wonder about the reverse equation; that we can be also a laboratory rat! So we have to wonder about this question " Can we accept, appreciate.. to undergo the test?!" 
      In my opinion, in order to classify human beings on the appearance standards, we have to collect full comprehensive information about the person under test; which is totally impossible! The one who decides to set someone under such test is required to be complete, let's say perfect; and you know that is impossible too!
       Surely you know many open-minded persons, you can analyze if they randomly judge people thinks to these delusions! It is not necessary that these good persons are educated, most of the illiterate people rarely use such negative standards!
Consequences of random ready judgments:
      As far as beauty prevails the universe, we have to be careful not to judge anyone through this scale because we simultaneously misjudge the attendants! Moreover, we say something we are not sure of and we never anticipate the future results either on the elected person or on the rest ( the second place)!
      When we organize a contest to choose a beauty queen, we choose judgment comity to elect nice girls! This comity is composed of persons with different backgrounds, ways of thinking, tendencies.., that will mold a certain imaginary judgment upon girls they don't really know, and the audience does the same thing too..! By the end, we get an elected queen that we often wonder how come! Note that we elect one winner or maybe three, sequentially, and losers are in thousands or millions..!
     Can you guess the negative residues of this so-called competition?! I think that the losses are shared between the two parties, do you agree with me?! I think that the contest selected girl will undergo a total negative change..! The simplest thing she can acquire is egoism, arrogance, excessive feeling of excellence.., that will negatively impact all her surroundings..! 
     What will happen to the caravan of the girls' contest losers?! Here, the side-effects are more difficult to the limit of mental troubles that causes diverse organic diseases! Especially that the contest competitors girls are mostly teenagers and we know how fragile is the immunity during this sensitive stage that rarely a contest loser girl can stand her ground..!
     We always hear and say " beauty is as beauty does ", " beauty is in the eye of the beholder".., which means it is a question of behavior, soul (soul purity), mind.., elegance but we often surf in delusion..!
     To classify human beings on body criterion, which is developed by humans, is the hardest injustice to human dignity! We should get rid of these bad habits that surely lead to contempt, exclusion, marginalization, racism..!
PS: I think we should redirect our focus towards soul purity, so I can't accompany this article with human beings content photos, otherwise I will fall into the trap of fallacies, delusion, eclecticism, racism..! Note that Allah (our creator) has created everybody on the best entire form! Rather, nature beauty content photos are the relevant representative, I guess! So let's focus more on ethics, speech and behavior's elegance..! Do you agree with me? I need your opinion!
To read more, please click here
هل أعجبك الموضوع ؟
