Tweet
People are finally starting to wake up to the fact that Ilhan Omar is an anti-Semitic homophobic jihadi. It took them long enough. But, Ilhan Omar is still lying to the world about who she truly is.
Along with receiving bi-partisan condemnation this week for anti-Jewish comments on Twitter which implied that Jews were paying for political influence, Ilhan Omar took to Twitter with some first class Taqiyya to pander to the transgender community after many began asking questions about how her Islamic ideology is going to impact her decision making as a Congresswoman.
Taqiyya is the Islamic practice of lying about and concealing one’s true belief in order to advance the cause of Islam. It is a common practice held by jihadis when they are exposed in the public eye for their pro-terror views. Omar is practicing Taqiyya in the way that she is trying to portray herself as an LGBTQ advocate in light of facing criticism for her anti-Jewish statements, and pro-Islamic terror associations, which have been well documented by Laura Loomer.
It's all about the Benjamins baby  https://t.co/KatcXJnZLV
Trending: Conservative Journalist Jacob Engels Suspended On Twitter For Calling Out Radical Islam
 
Ilhan posted a picture of a letter she wrote in which she called for newly elected Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, to investigate USA Powerlifting after they announced that transgender “women” would not be allowed to compete in Power lifting competitions with real biological women. Omar sent a letter to USA Powerlifting on January  31, 2019 behalf of JayCee Cooper, a male athlete who happens to be one of Omar’s constituents and identifies as a transgender woman. In the letter, Omar accused  USA powerlifting of violating Minnesota state laws against discrimination.
“Under the Minnesota Human Rights Act, discrimination against anyone based on their gender identity is illegal. This includes in public accommodations, and in Minnesota, organizations such as USA Powerlifting. In fact, just last month a Minnesota jury awarded Ms. Christina Ginther $20,000 after the Independent Women’s Football League refused to allow her to participate because she is transgender,” Omar wrote.
“I urge you to reconsider this discriminatory, unscientific policy and follow the example of the International Olympic Committee. The myth that trans women have a ‘direct competitive advantage’ is not supported by medical science, and it continues to stoke fear and violence against one of the most at-risk communities in the world,” she said.
During the 2018 elections in Minnesota, both Omar and Ellison endorsed each other and participated in multiple joint campaign events. Before becoming Minnesota’s Attorney General, Ellison served as the representative for Minnesota’s 5th Congressional District, a seat that is now occupied by Omar.
In her letter, Omar claims to care about discrimination against the LGBTQ community, which includes transgenders, but her associations, friendships, and history prove that she has a history of homophobia. One of Omar’s closest political allies is Linda Sarsour. During Omar’s campaign for Congress, Sarsour was often seen campaigning for her, and was even invited as one of her special guests for the Congressional swearing in ceremony. `
Omar, who is a Muslim immigrant from Somalia, has a history of making anti-Jewish remarks and has been endorsed and supported by some of the nation’s most notorious Jew haters.
Along with being pro-Hamas, Omar is also close friends with Linda Sarsour. In November, Omar traveled to Dearborn, Michigan where she participated in political events with Sarsour, a rabid anti-Semite and pro-Hamas mouthpiece. Besides being an ardent supporter of Hamas and CAIR, both of which are Islamic terrorist organizations, Sarsour herself often tweets about her hatred for Israel, Zionism, and her desires to implement Sharia Law in the United States. Sarsour endorsed Omar’s campaign and was invited as one of the guests to Omar and Rashida Tlaib’s Congressional swearing in ceremony on January 3, 2019. 
 
 
Linda Sarsour is a radical left wing Muslim Brotherhood activist. On July 1, 2017, Linda Sarsour gave a speech at the  54th Annual  Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) Convention in Chicago. During that speech, Sarsour not only infamously called for Muslims to carry out Jihad against President Trump, but she also used her speech as an opportunity to praise Imam Siraj Wahhaj, who has called for the killing of homosexuals.
“And to my favorite person in this room, that’s mutual, is Imam Siraj Wahhaj, who has been a mentor, motivator, and encourager of mine. Someone who has taught me to speak truth to power, and not worry about the consequences. Someone who has taught me that we are on this Earth to please Allah and only Allah, and that we are not here to please any man or woman on this earth.” Sarsour said. “So I am grateful to you Imam Siraj, and you might think this is weird, but every once in a while, when I get into that deep dark place, Imam Siraj comes and talks to me. And he helps me to emerge out of those places, so I’m grateful to you Imam Siraj, and may Allah bless you and protect you for a long time for our community, because we need you now more than ever.”
Siraj was not only  named in court documents  as an alleged “co-conspirator” in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, but he often calls for the killing of innocents in the name of Islam. Siraj once said,
“If Allah says 100 strikes, 100 strikes it is. If Allah says cut off their hand, you cut off their hand. If Allah says stone them to death, through the Prophet Muhammad, then you stone them to death, because it’s the obedience of Allah and his messenger—nothing personal.”
“Nothing personal.” That is what Siraj, Sarsour’s “mentor” and “favorite person” had to say about Islamic terrorism. According to Siraj, it’s ok to stone people to death and chop people’s hands off, if Allah commands it.
Even more concerning, Siraj is also known for saying, “It is my duty and our duty as Muslims to replace the U.S. Constitution with the Quran.”
Wahhaj is also the father of one of two men who authorities  arrested on August 8 in New Mexico  and described as armed “extremist Muslims” after it was discovered that they had kidnapped 11 children who they were training to become “school shooters”.
While fully aware that Siraj is a terrorist co-conspirator, a proponent of Islamic terror, and a supporter of destroying and replacing the U.S. Constitution with Sharia Law, Sarsour still proclaimed Siraj as her mentor. Wahhaj and Sarsour have participated in numerous events together, including events for the Islamic Council of North America (ICNA), which along with CAIR was identified as a Muslim Brotherhood organization in the Holy Land Foundation terrorism trial.
Sarsour, who has a lengthy resume of Jew hatred, is also an ally of CAIR, the Council on American Islamic Relations, which has  been found to have direct ties to HAMAS. 
Hamas has also been classified as a designated terrorist organization by the U.S. State Department and is listed as a co-conspirator in the Holy Land Foundation HAMAS terror funding trial in 2008, which is the largest terrorism financing case in U.S. history. In the  Covenant of Hamas , which outlines the goals and motive of Hamas and its members, it states that one of its main goals in the destruction of Israel.
“Israel will exist and will continue to exist until Islam will obliterate it, just as it obliterated others before it.”
Despite the fact that CAIR has been  linked to terror financing  and is recognized as a terrorist organization in the majority Muslim United Arab Emirates, Omar has been endorsed by CAIR and has not distanced herself from the group with often works with Wahhaj, who has helped CAIR raise millions of dollars.
Following an FBI raid on a New Mexico compound in which Wahhaj’s son was arrested for training children to be jihadi school shooters and orchestrating a terrorist attack on an Atlanta hospital, as confirmed by authorities, CAIR refused to condemn his family’s plan to commit terrorism in the name of Islam. Instead, CAIR offered “condolences” to Wahhaj and his family and tweeted about how much they love and support Wahhaj and his family.
“The father of a missing Georgia boy was training children at a New Mexico compound to commit school shootings, prosecutors said in court documents obtained,”  according to  Associated Press . “The documents say Siraj Ibn Wahhaj was conducting weapons training with assault rifles at the compound near the Colorado border where 11 hungry children were found in filthy conditions.” Police say Ibn Wahhaj is the father of Abdul-ghani Wahhaj, who went missing from Jonesboro, GA in December 2017. His remains were found on the Jihadi compound.
Yes. This really did happen.
Despite being a jihadist, a co-conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the father of an actual Islamic terrorist, and a raging anti-America Jew hater and homophobe, Wahhaj was the first Muslim to give an invocation in the House of Representatives in 1991.
CAIR Minnesota, which works with Omar in her District where she is now a Congressional representative in Minnesota, describes Wahhaj on their website, “Siraj Wahhaj is one of the most admired Muslim leaders and speakers in America.”
On an audio recording found and released by investigative journalist Laura Loomer in August 2018, Wahhaj is heard calling for the killing of homosexuals and referring to homosexuals as “diseased”. It is worth noting that many members of the Transgender community are homosexual.
“Brothers and sisters, I don’t believe any of you are homosexuals. Some 10% of the America people are homosexuals….”
He goes on to say, “And you know, brothers and sisters, you know what the punishment is, if a man is found with another man? The Prophet Mohammed said the one who does it band the one to whom it is done, kill them both.”
Wahhaj is citing a direct phrase from the Prophet Mohammed, who Ilhan, as a devout Muslim, worships and praises everyday. Omar has emphasized to the world how much she loves being a Muslim, but will she condemn the prophet Mohammed and Islam for the way in which it calls for the killing of gays and transgenders? To condemn the prophet Mohammed in Islam is a form of apostasy, which in Islam, is a punishable offense…by death.
Will Omar choose Islam or human rights and life for homosexuals? This is a question she must answer.
It is worth noting that on December 9, 2017, Omar spoke alongside Wahhaj and Sarsour at the Council on American-Islamic Relations San Francisco chapter’s (CAIR-SFBA) 23rd Annual Banquet where Omar was happily interacting with Wahhaj, many years after he made these comments in which he called for the killing of homosexuals.
It is time for Ilhan Omar to resign from Congress. How much more anti-American, anti-Jewish, homophobic, and pro-Islamic terror rhetoric will be accepted from this jihadi infiltaror in our Congress before she is finally removed from office and deported back to her country of Somalia for treason and immigration fraud (she married her brother).
If you recall, I was permanently banned by Twitter on November 21, 2018 for exposing Omar. I was banned for posting facts about Ilhan Omar, her Jew hatred, homophobia, and ties to Islamic terrorist organizations.
That day is long overdue, but maybe it will come soon now that the mainstream media is finally playing catch up to my reports about Ilhan Omar which I sent to all of the major news outlets last year.
Laura Loomer is a conservative investigative journalist and activist. Originally from Arizona, Laura began her career working as an undercover journalist for Project Veritas from 2015-2017. She covers politics, anti-Semitism, immigration, terrorism, the Islamification of the West, and voter fraud. Loomer’s investigations have been broadcasted on every major national mainstream media outlet in the United States, as well as many international publications. Support Laura Loomer’s Independent Journalism here : 
 
