The role will be responsible for accurate preparation and timely reporting of all tax returns.
Key Task
Regulatory compliance of tax reporting/returns
Strategic Task:
Support with the development and implementation of the Group’s tax strategy
Ensure the corporate tax liability of the Group is minimized within the ambit of the tax laws.
Understand the financial and operational implications of various tax laws and ensure the Group complies all relevant provisions.
 Implement effective tax planning strategies across the Group and ensure full compliance with relevant tax laws.
Develop and implement strategic tax planning for all necessary federal and state taxes.
Review tax returns and quarterly/yearly tax projections.
Operational Responsibilities:
Ensure the prompt generation of the Company Income Tax (CIT) and other related returns ensuring accuracy, completion and minimal tax exposures to the Group.
Monitor future legislation that impacts taxation and operations, including future risks.
Provide support in the identification, review and implementation of tax optimization opportunities for the Group.
Develop and maintain relationships with appropriate personnel in relevant tax authorities.
Timely monitoring and research on relevant taxation trends, legislative changes and relevant economic/fiscal changes in Nigeria.
Ensure 100% remittance of all tax and statutory obligations.
Ensure accurate computation of all tax liabilities within the Group.
Liaise with the tax consultants to ensure that the Group’s overall interests are protected during tax investigations and FIRS queries.
Ensure complete documentation of relevant supports and proof of tax remittance.
Monitor current and impending changes to tax regulation and make the appropriate updates to policies and strategies.
Specification/ Qualifications
Daily postings of transactions to appropriate books and softwares and update of repayment tracker.
Ensure the Monthly remittance of PAYEE and pensions by no later than 5th of the following month
Collate relevant information for the generation of periodic statutory returns, e.g, tax, for regulatory authorities
Work with auditors and other parties where necessary.
Preparation of payroll schedule
Produce periodic financial reports, loan disbursed, expected VS actual, matured and maturing, currency purchase and sales report
Effective filing of transaction documents and maintenance of records for effective audit trails.
Ensure daily reconciliation of bank balances of all transactions daily.
Other duties as assigned
Timeliness and accuracy of management accounts and reports
Average time to process invoices on approved transactions
Average budget variances – Actual vs. Plan
Variances in expense accounts – Actual vs. Plan
Performance in external audit examinations
Average time to approve payments
Accuracy in cash-flow estimates
Specification/ Qualification
Qualification:
First degree or its equivalent in a numerate discipline, MBA or Master’s degree in Finance or accounting preferred.
Minimum Experience
