KaLoGsKi
TURP – Transurethral Resection of the Prostate
I"m 82 years old, and I had this procedure done about two years ago and it was totally successful! Now, my urine flow is normal. My problem was SLOW urine flow which is now perfect. God bless surgery procedures!
Salvatore Pedi
Tonsillectomy
I had mine removed at age 25 and people kept telling me it'd be sooooo painful after they were removed. I took the pain meds given to me and I was back to work in 4 days, eating solid food as well. Guess I was just lucky. Mine were taken out though because if I tightened my throat just a little bit I could make both sides touch. They were bright red and made it hard to swallow as well as when I did get a cold, the cold felt far worse.
Charles Cook
LASIK - Laser Eye Surgery
Interesting video for its brevity. Although I think it is definitely necessary to speak with your eye care specialist to make sure you are a candidate for Lasik or if it is the best option.
Dr. Len Schwartz
Hip Replacement Surgery
I'm having this procedure done on my right hip tomorrow morning.  I have been freaking out about this because I really didn't know anything about it.  This has helped ease my fear soooo much. Thank you for posting this!
Ally King
TURP Transurethral Resection Prostate
My dad is getting this procedure done at 6am... I had no idea what it was til after this video...thanks!
Betsy Espinoza
Thanks for putting this video. ..Really useful one
Vicky Walker
Muy bueno el video.esto le sirve a todas las personas que tienen que administrarse insulina.
Mirna Elizabeth Callejas
Does this sound like a fantasy? Well, it isn’t. 
If you can deliver the goods and achieve true engagement, then this and other benefits will come to you.
You’re standing at a crossroads right now. You’ve got two roads to choose from. The road on your left is the road you’ve been traveling down. It’s rocky and bumpy. You’re trying the same old tactics. They’re less and less effective. 
Or you can go down the road to the right, which is paved and smooth. Those traveling on this road engage their patients, resulting in more positive relationships and a better bottom line.
This road is the one that you travel when you offer our viral PreOp® Patient Education & Engagement videos.
Click the button below to schedule a completely free ​coaching session. ​
© 2019 MedSelfEd, Inc. All rights Reserved I Privacy Policy
3 Secrets to profitable
Sign up to get started now:
SCHEDULE TIME HERE
By signing up you agree to our terms & conditions. You will receive email messages from us and you can unsubscribe any time. Privacy policy .
