Send us Feedback | Get Help
1. Motown Funk
In the first episode of a brand new season, Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May make a pilgrimage to Detroit to drive three highly tuned muscle cars on the deserted streets of this once-great motor city. Also in this show, Jeremy drives the super-lightweight, super-hardcore, 789 horsepower McLaren Senna.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 1 hour, 8 minutes Release date: January 17, 2019
2. Colombia Special Part 1
In a special episode, Clarkson, Hammond and May clatter across Colombia in a Jeep Wrangler, a Chevrolet Silverado pick-up and a Fiat Panda 4x4 as they attempt to capture high quality images of interesting animals to be used as Amazon's new screensavers, encountering epic scenery, extreme peril, weird hobbies and even some actual animals along the way.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 54 minutes Release date: January 24, 2019
3. Colombia Special Part 2
In a special episode, Clarkson, Hammond and May clatter across Colombia in a Jeep Wrangler, a Chevrolet Silverado pick-up and a Fiat Panda 4x4 as they attempt to capture high quality images of interesting animals to be used as Amazon's new screensavers, encountering epic scenery, extreme peril, weird hobbies and even some actual animals along the way.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 1 hour, 6 minutes Release date: January 25, 2019
4. Pick Up, Put Downs
In this episode Jeremy Clarkson drives the Volkswagen Amarok, Richard Hammond tries a Ford Ranger and James May is in a Mercedes X-class as they attempt to find the best of the new breed of European pick-up trucks with a series of tests based on life in the developing world. Also in the show, Jeremy is at the Eboladrome to try out the snorting, swollen, near-600 horsepower Jaguar XE Project 8.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 1 hour, 1 minute Release date: January 31, 2019
5. An Itchy Urus
In this episode, Jeremy Clarkson is in Sweden driving the new Lamborghini Urus SUV, James May is at the Eboladrome trying the Alpine A110 sports car, and Richard Hammond profiles Scottish racing driver Jim Clark, arguably the greatest racer of any generation.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 58 minutes Release date: February 7, 2019
6. Chinese Food for Thought
Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May are in China to sell the virtues of second-hand Western luxury cars to local business people while getting sweaty, lost and almost burnt. Also in this show, Hammond is at the track to test the NIO EP9 electric supercar.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 1 hour, 11 minutes Release date: February 14, 2019
7. Well Aged Scotch
Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May tour the most beautiful parts of Scotland in three old Italian cars which they believe to be future classics. Also in this show, Clarkson is at the Eboladrome to test the new BMW M5 sports saloon against the comfort-orientated Alpina B5.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English, English [Audio Description] Runtime: 1 hour, 6 minutes Release date: February 21, 2019
Bonus: Official Trailer
Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May are back for another season of adventure and idiocy, travelling the world to drive everything from hypercars and Italian classics to RVs and American muscle. If you've ever wondered what it would be like to rampage around the globe with your most entertaining friends, don't ask these three. They find each other very annoying.
TV-14 Subtitles and Closed Captions Language: English Runtime: 1 minute Release date: November 26, 2018
Bonus: X-Ray: The Title Sequence
An X-Ray exclusive piece about filming awe-inspiring aerials and the creation of the opening sequence for Season 1 of The Grand Tour.
TV-14 Language: English Runtime: 2 minutes Release date: November 27, 2018
Customers who watched this item also watched
